1 
Antoine de Saint-Exupéry 
 
 
The Little Prince 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translated from French by 
Iraklis Lampadariou 
 
 
2 
Antoine de Saint-Exupéry (1900-1944) is 
regarded as one of the most influential 
authors of France. Important aspects of 
his life were love, Literature and aviation 
in which he devoted himself in 1921 when 
he served his military service in the Air 
Force. Obtaining a pilot’s license he 
conducted 
several 
flights, 
getting 
inspiration for his writings. During the 
Second World War he wrote “The Little 
Prince” and he joined the Allied Air Forces. 
On July 31, 1944, he disappeared with his 
airplane at Corsica. Just in 2003 the wreck 
of his airplane was found on the seabed.  
 
 
 
Bibliography 
1926: L'Aviateur (The Aviator) 
1929: Courier Sud (Southern Mail) 
1931: Vol de Nuit (Night Flight) 
1938: Terre de Hommes (Wind, Sand, and 
Stars) 
1942: Pilote de Geurre (Flight to Arras) 
1943: Lettre à un Otage (Letter to a 
Hostage) 
1943: Le Petit Prince (The Little Prince) 
1948: Citadelle (The Wisdom of the Sands) 
posthumous 
3 
Antoine de Saint-Exupéry 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Little Prince 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Translated from French by 
Iraklis Lampadariou 
 
4 
Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, The Little Prince 
ISBN: 978-618-5147-45-7 
July 2015 
Τίτλος πρωτοτύπου: Le petit prince 
 
 
 
Illustrations by: 
Antoine de Saint-Exupéry 
 
Translated from French by: 
Iraklis Lampadariou, www.lampadariou.eu 
 
Page Layout:  
Konstantina Charlavani, k.charlavani@gmail.com 
 
 
Saita Publications  
Athanasiou Diakou 42 , 65201, Kavala  
T: 2510831856  
M.: 6977 070729  
e-mail: info@saitapublications.gr  
website: www.saitapublications.gr  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on paragraph 1, Article 29, Law 2121/1993, as amended by paragraph 5, Article 8, 
Law 2557/1997, “Copyright lasts for the lifetime of the author and seventy (70) years after 
his death, which are calculated from January 1
st of the year after the author’s death.” 
Bearing in mind that paragraph, we published the translation of the novel “The Little Prince” 
in English exclusively for readers who are living in Greece. Please check your national 
legislation on copyright if you do not live in Greece. 
 
 
Creative Commons License 
Attributions-Non-Commercial 3.0 Unported 
 
 
This free ebook is distributed under the Creative Commons License Attributions-Non-
Commercial 3.0 (CC BY-NC 3.0 Unported). 
5 
6 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To LÉON WERTH 
 
I apologise to children for dedicating this book to a grown-up. 
But I have a good excuse: this grown-up is the best friend I 
have ever had. I have another excuse too: this grown-up 
understands everything, even books for children. And I have a 
third excuse: this grown-up lives in France where he is 
hungry and cold and needs comforting. If these reasons are 
not enough, I should like to dedicate this book to the child 
this grown-up once was. All grown-ups were children once 
(but most of them have forgotten). So I will alter my 
dedication:   
 
To LÉON WERTH 
WHEN HE WAS A LITTLE BOY. 
 
8 
 
 
 
 
hen I was six years old, I saw a magnificent picture in a 
book about the jungle called True Stories. It showed a 
boa constrictor swallowing a wild animal. This is what it 
looked like. 
 
 
In the book it said: ‘Boa constrictors swallow their 
prey whole, without chewing it. Afterwards they are unable to 
move. Then they sleep for six months while they digest.’  
 
That set me thinking about all the things that go on in 
the jungle and, with a crayon, I did my first drawing. I called it 
drawing number one. It looked like this: 
 
 
I showed my masterpiece to the grown-ups and asked 
if they found it scary.  
 
They answered: ‘What’s scary about a hat?’ 
 
But my drawing was not of a hat. It was a boa 
constrictor digesting an elephant. So then I drew the inside of 
the boa, to help the grown-ups understand. They always need 
explanations. This is what my drawing number two looked 
like:  
W
1 
9 
 
 
The grown-ups told me to forget about drawing 
elephants inside boa constrictors and to concentrate instead 
on geography, history, arithmetic and grammar. Which is 
why, at the age of six, seeing as my drawing number one and 
my drawing number two had been such a disaster, I gave up 
on a glorious career as an artist. Grown-ups never 
understand anything on their own, and it’s nuisance for 
children to have to keep explaining things over and over 
again.  
 
So I had to choose another profession, and I learned 
to be a pilot. I flew all around the world. And it is true that 
geography came in very handy. I could tell the difference 
between China and Arizona at a glance. Which is very useful, 
if you lose your way at night. 
 
Over the past years, I have met lots of sensible people 
and spent a lot of time living in the world of grown-ups. I 
have seen them at close quarters, which has done nothing to 
change my opinion of them. 
 
Whenever I met a grown-up who seemed fairly 
intelligent, I would test him with my drawing number one 
which I have always kept, to find out if he really was 
perceptive. But he would always reply: ‘It’s a hat.’ So instead 
of talking to him about boa constrictors or the jungle or the 
stars, I’d come down to his level and discuss bridge, golf, 
politics and neckties. And the grown-up would be delighted to 
meet such a reasonable man.  
10 
 
 
 
nd so I lived alone, with no one I could really talk to, until 
six years ago when my plane broke down in Sahara 
Desert. As I did not have a mechanic with me, or any 
passengers, I was going to have to make a complicated 
engine repair on my own. My life depended on it, since I had 
barely enough drinking water to last for only 8 days. 
 
The first night, I lay down on the ground and fell 
asleep, miles and miles from any living soul. I was more cut 
off than a castaway adrift in the middle of the ocean. So you 
can imagine my astonishment when I was awakened at 
daybreak by a funny little voice saying: “Please, will you draw 
me a little lamb?” 
 
“What” 
 
“Draw me a little lamb…” 
 
I leaped to my feet as if I had been struck by lightning. 
I rubbed my eyes and stared. And I saw the most 
extraordinary little fellow studying me intently. This is the 
best picture I have managed to draw of him from memory. 
 
But of course my drawing is not nearly as delightful as 
the original. That is not my fault; the grown-ups had put a 
stop to my artistic career when I was six and I had never 
drawn anything other than my two boa constrictors.  
A
2 
11 
 
 
I gazed at him in amazement. I was miles and miles 
from any living soul, remember. But my little fellow did not 
look lost. Nor did he seem weak with exhaustion, or hunger, 
or thirst, or fright. In no way did he look like a child lost in the 
middle of the desert miles and miles from any living soul. 
When at last I found my voice, I said to him: “What on earth 
are you doing here?” 
 
And he repeated, very quietly, as if it were a matter of 
the utmost seriousness: “Please, will you draw me a little 
lamb?”  
 
Here I was, miles and miles from any living soul and 
with my life in danger, but I was so baffled that I meekly 
prepared to do as he asked and took a pen and paper out of 
my pocket. And then I remembered that I had mostly studied 
geography, history, arithmetic and grammar, and I told the 
little fellow (somewhat irritably) that I couldn’t draw. And he 
replied: “It doesn’t matter. Draw me a little lamb.” 
12 
 
As I had never done a picture of a lamb, I presented 
him with one of the only two drawings I could do: a boa 
constrictor from the outside. And I was astounded to hear 
the little fellow say: “No! No! I don’t want an elephant inside a 
boa. A boa’s too dangerous, and an elephant takes up too 
much room. My place is tiny. I need a lamb. Draw me a little 
lamb.” 
 
So I drew. 
 
 
He scrutinised my effort and said: “No! That one looks 
very sickly. Draw another one.” 
 
I drew: 
 
 
My little friend smiled indulgently: “Can’t you see… 
that’s not my lamb, it’s a ram. It’s got horns.” 
 
So I started all over again. 
 
 
But again, he turned it down: “That one’s too old. I 
want a lamb that will live for a long time.” 
 
13 
 
I was in a hurry to start stripping down the engine and 
my patience was wearing thin, so I hastily sketched this: 
 
 
 
 
And I said: “That’s the crate. The lamb you want is 
inside.” 
 
And I was amazed to see my young critic’s face light 
up: “That’s exactly what I wanted! Do you think this lamb will 
need a lot of grass?” 
 
“Why?” 
 
“Because my place is tiny.” 
 
“I’m sure there’ll be enough. I’ve given you a very little 
lamb.” 
 
He looked more closely at the drawing: “Not that 
little… Oh look! He’s fallen asleep.” 
 
And that is how I made the acquaintance of the little 
prince. 
 
14 
 
 
 
t took me ages to work out where the little prince came 
from. He asked me lots of questions but never seemed to 
hear mine. I gradually pieced his story together from odd 
things he said. For instance, when he first caught sight of my 
plane (I shall not draw my airplane; that would be much too 
complicated for me), he asked me: “What’s that thing?” 
 
“It’s not a thing. It flies. It’s a plane. It’s my plane.” 
 
And I was proud to tell him that I was a pilot and I flew 
planes. 
 
Then he exclaimed: “What! You feel out of the sky!” 
 
“Yes”, I replied modestly. 
 
“Oh! That’s funny.” 
 
And the little prince gave a tinkling laugh which I 
found extremely annoying. I expect people to take my 
troubles seriously.  
 
Then he added: “So you came out of the sky too! What 
planet are you from?” 
 
It suddenly dawned on me that he was giving me an 
important clue as to his mysterious appearance, and I said: 
“You’re from another planet, aren’t you?” 
 
But he did not reply. Still staring at my plane, he 
gently nodded his head: “Of course, you can’t have come 
from very far away in that thing.” 
 
And he stood lost in thought for a while. Then, taking 
my lamb out of his pocket, he examined his treasure. 
 
 
You can imagine how intrigued I was by his allusion to other 
planets. 
 
So I tried to find out more: “Where do you come from, 
little man? Where is ‘your place’? Where do you want to take 
my lamb?” 
I 
3 
15 
 
He pondered for a while and replied: “The good thing 
about the crate is that at night it can be his house.” 
 
“Exactly. And if you behave, I’ll give you a rope to tie 
him up during the day. And a stake.” 
 
The little prince was shocked: “Tie him up? What a 
strange thing to do!” 
 
“But if you don’t tie him up, he’ll wander all over the 
place and get lost.” 
 
And my little friend burst out laughing again: “But 
where would he go?” 
 
“Anywhere. Straight ahead of him.” 
 
Then the little prince remarked solemnly: “It wouldn’t 
matter, my place is so tiny!” 
 
And he added wistfully: “Straight ahead of him, 
nobody can go very far.” 
 
 
16 
 
 
had thus learned a second fact of great importance: this 
was that the planet the little prince came from was scarcely 
any larger than a house! 
 
But that did not really surprise me much. I knew very 
well that in addition to the great planets -such as the Earth, 
Jupiter, Mars, Venus- to which we have given names, there 
are also hundreds of others, some of which are so small that 
one has a hard time seeing them through the telescope. 
When an astronomer discovers one of these he does not give 
it a name, but only a number. He might call it, for example, 
“Asteroid 325.” 
 
I have serious reason to believe that the planet from 
which the little prince came is the asteroid known as Β 612.  
I 
4 
17 
 
This asteroid has only once been seen through the 
telescope. That was by a Turkish astronomer, in 1909. 
 
 
On making his discovery, the astronomer had 
presented it to the International Astronomical Congress, in a 
great demonstration. But he was in Turkish costume, and so 
nobody would believe what he said. Grown-ups are like that… 
 
 
Fortunately, however, for the reputation of Asteroid B 
612, a Turkish dictator made a law that his subjects, under 
pain of death, should change to European costume. So in 
1920 the astronomer gave his demonstration all over again, 
dressed with impressive style and elegance. And this time 
everybody accepted his report.  
18 
 
 
If I have told you these details about the asteroid, and 
made a note of its number for you, it is on no account of the 
grown-ups and their ways. Grown-ups love figures. When you 
tell them that you have made a new friend, they never ask 
you any questions about essential matters. They never say to 
you, “What does his voice sound like? What games does he 
love best? Does he collect butterflies?” Instead, they 
demand: “How old is he? How many brothers has he? How 
much does he weigh? How much money does his father 
make?” Only from these figures do they think they have 
learned anything about him. 
 
If you were to say to the grown-ups: “I saw a beautiful 
house made of rosy brick, with geraniums in the windows and 
doves on the roof,” they would not be able to get any idea of 
that house at all. You would have to say to them: “I saw a 
house that cost 100.000 francs.” Then they would exclaim: 
“Oh, what a pretty house that is!” 
 
Just so, you might say to them: “The proof that the 
little prince existed is that he was charming, that he laughed, 
and that he was looking for a sheep. If anybody wants a 
sheep, that is a proof that he exists.” And what good would it 
do tell them that? They would shrug their shoulders, and 
treat you like a child. But if you said to them: “The planet he 
came from is Asteroid B 612,” then they would be convinced, 
and leave you in peace from their questions. 
 
They are like that. One must not hold it against them. 
Children should always show great forbearance toward 
grown-up people. 
19 
 
But certainly, for us who understand life, figures are a 
matter of indifference. I should have liked to begin this story 
in the fashion of the fairy-tales. I should have liked to say: 
“Once upon a time there was a little prince who lived on a 
planet that was scarcely any bigger than himself, and who 
had need of a friend…” 
 
To those who understand life, that would have given a 
much greater air of truth to my story. 
 
I do not want any one to read my book carelessly. I 
have suffered too much grief in setting down these 
memories. Six years have already passed since my friend 
went away from me, with his sheep. If I try to describe him 
here, it is to make sure that I shall not forget him. To forget a 
friend is sad. Not every one has had a friend. And if I forget 
him, I may become like the grown-ups who are no longer 
interested in anything but figures… 
 
It is for that purpose, again, that I have bought a box 
of paints and some pencils. It is hard to take up drawing 
again at my age, when I have never made any pictures 
except those of the boa constrictor from the outside and the 
boa constrictor from the inside, since I was six. I shall 
certainly try to make my portraits as true to life as possible. 
But I am not at all sure of success. One drawing goes along 
all right, and another has no resemblance to its subject. I 
make some errors, too, in the little prince’s height: in one 
place he is too tall and in another too short. And I feel some 
doubts about the colour of his costume. So I fumble along as 
best I can, now good, now bad, and I hope generally fair-to-
middling. 
 
In certain more important details I shall make 
mistakes, also. But that is something that will not be my fault. 
My friend never explained anything to me. He thought, 
perhaps, that I was like himself. But I, alas, do not know how 
to see sheep through the walls of boxes. Perhaps I am a little 
like the grown-ups. I have had to grow old. 
20 
 
 
 
s each day passed I would learn, in our talk, something 
about the little prince’s planet, his departure from it, his 
journey. The information would come very slowly, as it might 
chance to fall from his thoughts. It was in this way that I 
heard, on the third day, about the catastrophe of the 
baobabs.  
 
This time, once more, I had the sheep to thank for it. 
For the little prince asked me abruptly –as if seized by a 
grave doubt- “It is true, isn’t it, that sheep eat little bushes?” 
 
“Yes, that is true.” 
 
“Ah! I am glad!” 
 
I did not understand why it was so important that 
sheep should eat little bushes. But the little prince added:
 
“Then it follows that they also eat baobabs?” 
 
I pointed out to the little prince that baobabs were not 
little bushes, but, on the contrary, trees as big as castles; and 
that even if he took a whole herd of elephants away with him, 
the herd would not eat up one single baobab. 
 
The idea of the herd of elephants made the little 
prince laugh. 
 
“We would have to put them one on top of the other,” 
he said. 
 
A
5 
21 
 
But he made a wise comment: 
 
“Before they grow so big, the baobabs start out by 
being little.” 
 
“That is strictly correct,” I said. “But why do you want 
the sheep to eat the little baobabs?” 
 
He answered me at once, “Oh, come, come!”, as if he 
were speaking of something that was self-evident. And I was 
obliged to make a great mental effort to solve this problem, 
without any assistance. 
 
Indeed, as I learned, there were on the planet where 
the little prince lived –as on all planets- good plants and bad 
plants. In consequence, there were good seeds from good 
plants, and bad seeds from bad plants. But seeds are 
invisible. They sleep deep in the heart of the earth’s 
darkness, until some one among them is seized with the 
desire to awaken. Then this little seed will stretch itself and 
begin –timidly at first- to push a charming little sprig 
inoffensively upward toward the sun. If it is only a sprout of 
radish or the sprig of a rose-bush, one would let it grow 
wherever it might wish. But when it is a bad plant, one must 
destroy it as soon as possible, the very first instant that one 
recognizes it. 
 
Now there were some terrible seeds on the planet 
that was the home of the little prince; and these were the 
seeds of the baobab. The soil of that planet was infested with 
them. A baobab is something you will never, never be able to 
get rid of if you attend to it too late. It spreads over the 
entire planet. It bores clear through it with its roots. And if 
the planet is too small, and the baobabs are too many, they 
split it in pieces… 
 
“It is a question of discipline,” the little prince said to 
me later on. “When you’ve finished your own toilet in the 
morning, then it is time to attend to the toilet of your planet, 
just so, with the greatest care. You must see to it that you 
22 
pull up regularly all the baobabs, at the very first moment 
when they can be distinguished from the rose-bushes which 
they resemble so closely in their earliest youth. It is very 
tedious work,” the little prince added, “but very easy.” 
 
And one day he said to me: “You ought to make a 
beautiful drawing, so that the children where you live can see 
exactly how all this is. That would be very useful to them if 
they were to travel some day. Sometimes there is no harm in 
putting off a piece of work until another day. But when it is a 
matter of baobabs, that always means a catastrophe. I knew 
a planet that was inhabited by a lazy man. He neglected 
three little bushes…” 
  
 
 
 
23 
 
So, as the little prince described it to me, I have made 
a drawing of that planet. I do not much like to take the tone 
of a moralist. But the danger of the baobabs is so little 
understood, and such considerable risks would be run by 
anyone who might get lost on an asteroid, that for once I am 
breaking through my reserve. “Children,” I say plainly, “watch 
out for the baobabs!” 
 
My friends, like myself, have been skirting this danger 
for a long time, without ever knowing it; and so it is for them 
that I have worked so hard over this drawing. The lesson 
which I pass on by this means it worth all the trouble it has 
cost me. 
 
Perhaps you will ask me, “Why there are no other 
drawings in this book as magnificent and impressive as this 
drawing of the baobabs?” 
 
The reply is simple. I have tried. But with the others I 
have not been successful. When I made the drawing of the 
baobabs I was carried beyond myself by the inspiring force of 
urgent necessity.  
 
 
24 
 
 
 
h, little prince! Bit by bit I came to understand the 
secrets of your sad little life… For a long time you had 
found your only entertainment in the quiet pleasure of 
looking at the sunset. I learned that new detail on the 
morning of the fourth day, when you said to me: 
 
“I am very fond of sunsets. Come, let us go look at a 
sunset now.” 
 
“But he must wait,” I said. 
 
“Wait? For what?” 
 
“For the sunset. We must wait until it is time.” 
 
At first you seemed to be very much surprised. And 
then you laughed to yourself. You said to me: 
 
“I am always thinking that I am at home!” 
 
Just so. Everybody knows that when it is noon in the 
United States of America the sun is setting over France. If 
you could fly to France in one minute, you could go straight 
into the sunset, right from noon. Unfortunately, France is too 
far away for that. But on your tiny planet, my little prince, all 
you need do is move your chair a few steps. You can see the 
day end and the twilight falling whenever you like… 
 
“One day,” you said to me, “I saw the sunset forty-four 
times!” 
 
And a little later you added: 
 
“You know –one loves the sunset, when one is so 
sad…” 
 
“Were you so sad, then?” I asked, “on the day of the 
forty-four sunsets?” 
 
But the little prince made no reply. 
 
 
O
6 
25 
 
 
 
n the fifth day –again, as always, it was thanks to the 
sheep- the secret of the little prince’s life was revealed 
to me. Abruptly, without anything to lead up to it, and as if 
the question had been born of long and silent meditation on 
his problem, he demanded: 
 
“A sheep –if it eats little bushes, does it eat flowers, 
too?” 
 
“A sheep,” I answered, “eats anything it finds in its 
reach.” 
 
“Even flowers that have thorns?” 
 
“Yes, even flowers that have thorns.” 
 
“Then the thorns –what use are they?” 
 
I did not know. At that moment I was very busy trying 
to unscrew a bolt that had got stuck in my engine. I was very 
much worried, for it was becoming clear to me that the 
breakdown of my plane was extremely serious. And I had so 
little drinking water lest that I had to fear the worst. 
 
“The thorns – what use are they?” 
 
The little prince never let go of a question, once he 
had asked it. As for me, I was upset over that bolt. And I 
answered with the first thing that came into my head: 
 
“The thorns are of no use at all. Flowers have thorns 
just for spite!” 
 
“Oh!” 
 
There was a moment of complete silence. Then the 
little prince flashed back at me, with a kind of resentfulness: 
 
“I don’t believe you! Flowers are weak creatures. They 
are naïve. They reassure themselves as best they can. They 
believe that their thorns are terrible weapons…” 
 
I did not answer. At that instant I was saying to myself: 
O
7 
26 
“If this bolt still won’t turn, I am going to knock it out with the 
hammer.” Again the little prince disturbed my thoughts: 
 
“And you actually believe that the flowers -” 
 
“Oh, no!” I cried. “No, no, no! I don’t believe anything. I 
answered you with the first thing that came into my head. 
Don’t you see – I am very busy with matters of 
consequence!” 
 
He stared at me, thunderstruck. 
 
“Matters of consequence!” 
 
He looked at me there, with my hammer in my hand, 
my fingers black with engine-grease, bending down over an 
object which seemed to him extremely ugly… 
 
“You talk just like the grown-ups!” 
 
That made me a little ashamed. But he went on, 
relentlessly: 
 
“You mix everything up together… You confuse 
everything…” 
 
He was really very angry. He tossed his golden curls in 
the breeze. 
 
“I know a planet where there is a certain red-faced 
gentleman. He has never smelled a flower. He has never 
looked a star. He has never loved any one. He has never done 
anything in his life but add up figures. And all day he says 
over and over, just like you: ‘I am busy with matters of 
consequence!’ And that makes him swell up with pride. But 
he is not a man – he is a mushroom!” 
 
“A what?” 
 
“A mushroom!” 
 
The little prince was now white with rage. 
 
“The flowers have been growing thorns for millions of 
years. For millions of years the sheep have been eating them 
just the same. And it is not a matter of consequence to try to 
understand why the flowers go to so much trouble to grow 
thorns which are never of any use to them? Is the warfare 
27 
between the sheep and the flowers not important? Is this not 
of more consequence than a fat red-faced gentleman’s 
sums? And if I know – I, myself – one flower which is unique in 
the world, which grows nowhere but on my planet, but which 
one little sheep can destroy in a single bite some morning, 
without even noticing what he is doing – Oh! You think that is 
not important!” 
 
His face turned from white to red as he continued: 
 
“If some one loves a flower, of which just one single 
blossom grows in all the millions and millions of stars, it is 
enough to make him happy just to look at the stars. He can 
say to himself: ‘Somewhere, my flower is there…’ But if the 
sheep eats the flower, in one moment all his stars will be 
darkened… And you think that is not important!” 
 
He could not say anything more. His words were 
choked by sobbing. 
 
The night had fallen. I had let my tools drop from my 
hands. Of what moment now was my hammer, my bolt, or 
thirst, or death? On one star, one planet, my planet, the 
Earth, there was a little prince to be comforted. I took him in 
my arms, and rocked him. I said to him: 
 
“The flower that you love is not in danger. I will draw 
you a muzzle for your sheep. I will draw you a railing to put 
around your flower. I will-” 
 
I did not know what to say to him. I felt awkward and 
blundering. I did not know how I could reach him, where I 
could overtake him and go on hand in hand with him once 
more. 
 
It is such a secret place, the land of tears.    
 
28 
  
 
 
 soon learned to know this flower better. On the little 
prince’s planet the flowers had always been very simple. 
They had only one ring of petals; they took up no room at all; 
they were a trouble to nobody. One morning they would 
appear in the grass, and by night they would have faded 
peacefully away. But one day, from a seed blown from no one 
knew where, a new flower had come up; and the little prince 
had watched very closely over this small sprout which was 
not like any other small sprouts on his planet. It might, you 
see, have been a new kind of baobab. 
 
But the shrub soon stopped growing, and began to 
get ready to produce a flower. The little prince, who was 
present at the first appearance of a huge bud, felt at once 
that some sort of miraculous apparition must emerge from 
it. But the flower was not satisfied to complete the 
preparations for her beauty in the shelter of her green 
chamber. She chose her colours with the greatest care. She 
dressed herself slowly. She adjusted her petals one by one. 
She did not wish to go out into the world all rumpled, like the 
field poppies. It was only in the full radiance of her beauty 
that she wished to appear. Oh, yes! She was a coquettish 
creature! And her mysterious adornment lasted for days and 
days. 
 
Then one morning, exactly at sunrise, she suddenly 
showed herself. 
 
And, after working with all this painstaking precision, 
she yawned and said: 
 
“Ah! I am scarcely awake. I beg that you will excuse 
me. My petals are still all disarranged…” 
 
But the little prince could not restrain his admiration: 
 
“Oh! How beautiful you are!” 
I 
8 
29 
 
“Am I not?” the flower responded, sweetly. “And I was 
born at the same moment as the sun…” 
 
The little prince could guess easily enough that she 
was not any too modest – but now moving – and exciting – 
she was! 
 
“I think it is time for breakfast,” she added an instant 
later. “If you would have the kindness to think of my needs-” 
 
And the little prince, completely abashed, went to look 
for a sprinkling-can of fresh water. So, he tended the flower. 
 
 
So, too, she began very quickly to torment him with 
her vanity – which was, if the truth be known, a little difficult 
to deal with. One day, for instance, when she was speaking of 
her four thorns, she said to the little prince: 
 
“Let the tigers come with their clows!” 
 
“There are no tigers on my planet,” the little prince 
objected. “And, anyway, tigers do not eat weeds.” 
 
“I am not a weed,” the flower replied, sweetly. 
 
“Please excuse me…” 
30 
 
“I am not at all afraid of tigers,” she went on, “but I 
have a horror of draughts. I suppose you wouldn’t have a 
screen for me?” 
 
“A horror of draughts – that is bad luck, for a plant,” 
remarked the little prince, and added to himself, “This flower 
is a very complex creature…” 
 
 
 
“At night I want you to put me under a glass globe. It 
is very cold where you live. In the place where I came from -” 
 
But she interrupted herself at that point. She had 
come in the form of a seed. She could not have known 
anything of any other worlds. Embarrassed over having let 
herself be caught on the verge of such a naïve untruth, she 
coughed two or three times, in order to put the little prince 
in the wrong.  
 
“The screen?” 
 
“I was just going to look for it when you spoke to me…” 
 
Then she forced her cough a little more 
so that he should suffer from remorse just the 
same.  
 
So the little prince, in spite of all the 
good will that was inseparable from his love, 
had soon come to doubt her. He had taken 
31 
seriously words which were without importance, and it made 
him very unhappy. 
 
“I ought not to have listened to her,” he confided to 
me one day. “One never ought to listen to the flowers. One 
should simply look at them and breathe their fragrance. Mine 
perfumed all my planet. But I did not know how to take 
pleasure in all her grace. This tale of claws, which disturbed 
my so much, should only have filled my heart with 
tenderness and pity.” 
 
And he continued his confidences: 
 
“The fact is that I did not know how to understand 
anything! I ought to have judged by deeds and not by words. 
She cast her fragrance and her radiance over me. I ought 
never to have run away from her… I ought to have guessed 
all the affection that lay behind her poor little stratagems. 
Flowers are so inconsistent! But I was too young to know how 
to love her…”  
 
 
32 
 
 
 
 
 believe that for his escape he took advantage of the 
migration of a flock of wild birds. On the morning of his 
departure he put his planet in perfect order. He carefully 
cleaned out his active volcanoes. He possessed two active 
volcanoes; and they were very convenient for heating his 
breakfast in the morning. He also had one volcano that was 
extinct. But, as he said, “One never knows!” So he cleaned out 
the extinct volcano, too. If they are well cleaned out, 
volcanoes burn slowly and steadily, without any eruptions. 
Volcanic eruptions are like fires in a chimney.  
 
On our earth we are obviously much too small to 
clean out our volcanoes. That is why they bring no end of 
trouble upon us. 
 
The little prince also pulled up, with a certain sense of 
dejection, that last little shoots of the baobabs. He believed 
that he would never want to return. But on this last morning 
all these familiar tasks seemed very precious to him. And 
when he watered the flower for the last time, and prepared 
to place her under the shelter of her glass globe, he realized 
that he was very close to tears. 
  
 
 
I 
9 
33 
 
 
 
34 
 
“Goodbye,” he said to the flower. 
 
But she made no answer. 
 
“Goodbye,” he said again. 
 
The flower coughed. But it was not because she had a 
cold. 
 
“I have been silly,” she said to him, at last. “I ask your 
forgiveness. Try to be happy…” 
 
He was surprised by this absence of reproaches. He 
stood there all bewildered, the glass globe held arrested in 
midair. He did not understand this quiet sweetness. 
 
“Of course I love you,” the flower said to him. “It is my 
fault that you have not known it all the while. That is of no 
importance. But you – you have been just a foolish as I. Try to 
be happy… Let the glass globe be. I don’t want it any more.” 
 
“But the wind-” 
 
“My cold is not so bad as all that… The cool night air 
will do me good. I am a flower.” 
 
“But the animals-” 
 
“Well, I must endure the presence of two or three 
caterpillars if I wish to become acquainted with the 
butterflies. It seems that they are very beautiful. And if not 
the butterflies –and the caterpillars- who will call upon me? 
You will be far away… As for the large animals – I am not at 
all afraid of any of them. I have my claws.” 
 
And, naively, she showed her four thorns. Then she 
added: 
 
“Don’t linger like this. You have decided to go away. 
Now go!” 
 
For she did not want him to see her crying. She was 
such a proud flower…  
35 
36 
 
 
 
e found himself in the neighbourhood of the asteroids 
325, 326, 327, 328, 329, and 330. He began, therefore, 
by visiting them, in order to add to his knowledge.  
 
The first of them was inhabited by a king. Clad in royal 
purple and ermine, he was seated upon a throne which was 
at the same time both simple and 
majestic. 
 
“Ah! Here is a subject,” exclaimed 
the king, when he saw the little prince 
coming.  
 
And 
the 
little 
prince 
asked 
himself: 
 
“How could he recognize me 
when he had never seen me before?” 
 
He did not know how the world is 
simplified for kings. To them, all people 
are subjects.  
 
“Approach, so that I may see you 
better,” 
said 
the 
king, 
who 
felt 
consumingly proud of being at last a king over somebody.  
 
The little prince looked everywhere to find a place to 
sit down; but the entire planet was crammed and obstructed 
by the king’s magnificent ermine robe. So he remained 
standing upright, and, since he was tired, he yawned. 
 
“It is contrary to etiquette to yawn in the presence of 
a king,” the monarch said to him. “I forbid you to do do.” 
 
“I can’t help it. I can’t stop myself,” replied the little 
prince, thoroughly embarrassed. “I have come on a long 
journey, and I have had no sleep…” 
H
10 
37 
 
“Ah, then,” the king said. “I order you to yawn. It is 
years since I have seen anyone yawing. Yawns, to me, are 
objects of curiosity. Come, now! Yawn again! It is an order.” 
 
“That frightens me… I cannot, any more…” murmured 
the little prince, now completely abashed. 
 
“Hum! Hum!” replied the king. “Then I – I order you 
sometimes to yawn and sometimes to-” 
 
He spluttered a little, and seemed vexed. 
 
For what the king fundamentally insisted upon was 
that his authority should be respected. He tolerated no 
disobedience. He was an absolute monarch. But, because he 
was a very good man, he made his orders reasonable. 
 
“If I ordered a general to change himself into a sea 
bird, and if the general did not obey me, that would not be 
the fault of the general. It would be my fault.” 
 
“May I sit down?” came now a timid inquiry from the 
little prince. 
 
“I order you to do so,” the king answered him, and 
majestically gathered in a fold of his ermine mantle. 
 
But the little prince was wondering… The planet was 
tiny. Over what could this king really rule? 
 
“Sire,” he said to him, “I beg that you will excuse my 
asking you a question-” 
 
“I order you to ask me a question,” the king hastened 
to assure him. 
 
“Sire-over what do you rule?” 
 
“Over everything,” said the king, with magnificent 
simplicity. 
 
“Over everything?” 
 
The king made a gesture, which took in his planet, the 
other planets, and all the stars. 
 
“Over all that?” asked the little prince. 
 
“Over all that,” the king answered. 
38 
 
For his rule was not only absolute: it was also 
universal. 
 
“And the stars obey you?” 
 
“Certainly they do,” the king said. “They obey instantly. 
I do not permit insubordination.” 
 
Such power was a thing for the little prince to marvel 
at. If he had been master of such complete authority, he 
would have been able to watch the sunset, not forty-four 
times in one day, but seventy-two, or even a hundred, or 
even two hundred times, without ever having to move his 
chair. And because he felt a bit sad as he remembered his 
little planet which he had forsaken, he plucked up his courage 
to ask the king a favour: 
 
“I should like to see a sunset… Do me that kindness… 
Order the sun to set…” 
 
“If I ordered a general to fly from one flower to 
another like a butterfly, or to write a tragic drama, or to 
change himself into a sea bird, and if the general did not 
carry out the order that he had received, which one of us 
would be in the wrong?” the king demanded “The general, or 
myself?” 
 
“You,” said the prince firmly. 
 
“Exactly. One must require from each other the duty 
which each one can perform,” the king went on. “Accepted 
authority rests first of all on reason. If you ordered your 
people to go and throw themselves into the sea, they would 
rise up in revolution. I have the right to require obedience 
because my orders are reasonable.” 
 
“Then my sunset?” the little prince reminded him: for 
he never forgot a question once he had asked it. 
 
“You shall have your sunset. I shall command it. But, 
according to my science of government, I shall wait until 
conditions are favourable.” 
 
“When will that be?” inquired the little prince. 
39 
 
“Hum! Hum!” replied the king; and before saying 
anything else he consulted a bulky almanac. “Hum! Hum! 
That will be about –about- that will be this evening about 
twenty minutes to eight. And you will see how well I am 
obeyed!” 
 
The little prince yawned. He was regretting his lost 
sunset. And then, too, he was already beginning to be a little 
bored. 
 
“I have nothing more to do here,” he said to the king. 
“So I shall set out on my way again.” 
 
“Do not go,” said the king, who was very proud of 
having a subject. “Do not go. I will make you a Minister!” 
 
“Minister of what?” 
 
“Minister of –of Justice!” 
 
“But there is nobody here to judge!” 
 
“We do not know that,” the king said to him. “I have 
not yet made a complete tour of my kingdom. I am very old. 
There is no room here for a carriage. And it tires me to walk.” 
 
“Oh, but I have looked already!” said the little prince, 
turning around to give one more glance to the other side of 
the planet. On that side, as on this, there was nobody at all… 
“Then you shall judge yourself,” the king answered. “That is 
the most difficult thing of all. It is much more difficult to 
judge oneself than to judge others. If you succeed in judging 
yourself rightly, then you are indeed a man of true wisdom.” 
 
“Yes,” said the little prince, “but I can judge myself 
anywhere. I do not need to live on this planet.” 
 
“Hum! Hum!” said the king. “I have good reason to 
believe that somewhere on my planet there is an old rat. I 
hear him at night. You can judge this old rat. From time to 
time you will condemn him to death. Thus his life will depend 
on your justice. But you will pardon him on each occasion; for 
he must be treated thriftily. He is the only one we have.” 
40 
 
“I,” replied the little prince, “do not like to condemn 
anyone to death. And now I think I will go on my way.” 
 
“No,” said the king. 
 
But the little prince, having now completed his 
preparations for departure, had no wish to grieve the old 
monarch. 
 
“If your Majesty wishes to be promptly obeyed,” he 
said, “he should be able to give me a reasonable order. He 
should be able, for example, to order me to be gone by the 
end of one minute. It seems to me that conditions are 
favourable…” 
 
As the king made no answer, the little prince hesitated 
a moment. Then, with a sigh, he took his leave. 
 
“I make you my Ambassador,” the king called out, 
hastily. 
 
He had a magnificent air of authority. 
 
“The grown-ups are very strange,” the little prince said 
to himself, as he continued on his journey. 
 
 
  
 
41 
 
 
 
he second planet was inhabited by a conceited man. 
     “Ah! Ah! I am about to receive a visit from an admirer!” 
he exclaimed, from afar, when he first saw the little prince 
coming. 
 
For, to conceited people, all the others are admirers. 
 
“Good morning,” said the little 
prince. “That is as hat you are wearing.” 
 
“It is a hat for salutes,” the 
conceited man replied. “It is to raise in 
salute 
when 
people 
acclaim 
me. 
Unfortunately, nobody at all ever passes 
this way.” 
 
“Yes?” said the little prince, who did 
not understand what the conceited man 
was talking about. 
 
“Clap your hands, one against the 
other,” the conceited man now directed 
him. 
 
The little prince clapped his hands. 
The conceited man raised his hat in a 
modest salute. 
 
“This is more entertaining than the 
visit to the king,” the little prince said to 
himself. And he began again to clap his hands, one against 
the other. The conceited man again raised his hat in salute. 
 
After five minutes of this exercise the little prince 
grew tired of the game’s monotony. 
 
“And what should one do to make the hat come 
down?” he asked. 
 
But the conceited man did not hear him. Conceited 
people never hear anything but praise. 
T
11 
42 
 
“Do you really admire me very much?” he demanded 
of the little prince. 
 
“What does than mean –‘admire’?” 
 
“To admire means that you regards me as the 
handsomest, the best-dressed, the richest, and the most 
intelligent man on this planet.” 
 
“But you are the only man on your planet!” 
 
“Do me this kindness. Admire me just the same.” 
 
“I admire you,” said the little prince, shrugging his 
shoulders slightly, “but what is there in that to interest you so 
much?” 
 
And the little prince went away. 
 
“The grown-ups are certainly very odd,” he said to 
himself, as he continued on his journey. 
 
43 
 
 
 
he next planet was inhabited by a tippler. This was a very 
short visit, but it plunged the little prince into deep 
dejection. 
 
“What are you doing there?” he said to the tippler, 
whom he found settled down in silence before a collection of 
empty bottles and also a collection of full bottles.  
 
“I am drinking,” replied the tippler, with a lugubrious 
air. 
 
“Why are you drinking?” demanded the little prince. 
 
“So that I may forget,” replied the tippler. 
 
“Forget what?” inquired the little prince, who already 
was sorry for him. 
 
“Forget that I am ashamed,” the tippler confessed, 
hanging his head. 
 
“Ashamed of what?” insisted the little prince, who 
wanted to help him. 
 
“Ashamed of drinking!” The tippler brought his speech 
to an end, and shut himself up in an impregnable silence. 
 
And the little prince went away, puzzled.  
 
“The grown-ups are certainly very, very, odd,” he said 
to himself, as he continued on his journey. 
 
 
T
12 
44 
 
 
 
he fourth planet belonged to a businessman. This man 
was so much occupied that he did not even raise his head 
at the little prince’s arrival. 
 
“Good morning,” the little prince said to him. “Your 
cigarette has gone out.” 
 
“Three and two make five. Five and seven make 
twelve. Twelve and three make fifteen. Good morning. Fifteen 
and seven make twenty-two. Twenty-two and six make 
twenty-eight. I haven’t time to light it again. Twenty-six and 
five make thirty-one. Phew! Then that makes five-hundred-
and-one million, six-hundred-twenty-two thousand, seven-
hundred-thirty-one.” 
 
“Five hundred million what?” asked the little prince. 
 
“Eh? Are you still there? Five-hundred-and-one million 
– I can’t stop… I have so much to do! I am concerned with 
matters of consequence. I don’t amuse myself with 
balderdash. Two and five make seven…”  
 
“Five-hundred-and-one million what?” repeated the 
little prince, who never in his life had let go of a question 
once he had asked it. 
T
13 
45 
 
The businessman raised his head. 
 
“During the fifty-four years that I have inhabited this 
planet, I have been disturbed only three times. The first time 
was twenty-two years ago, when some giddy goose fell from 
goodness knows where. He made the most frightful noise 
that resounded all over the place, and I made four mistakes 
in my addition. The second time, eleven years ago, I was 
disturbed by an attack of rheumatism. I don’t get enough 
exercise. I have no time for loafing. The third time –well, this 
is it! I was saying, then, five-hundred-and-one millions-” 
 
“Millions of what?” 
 
The businessman suddenly realized that there was no 
hope of being left in peace until he answered this question. 
 
“Millions of those little objects,” he said, “which one 
sometimes sees in the sky.” 
 
“Flies?” 
 
“Oh, no. Little glittering objects.” 
 
“Bees?” 
 
“Oh, no. Little objects that set lazy people to idle 
dreaming. As for me, I am concerned with matters of 
consequence. There is no time for idle dreaming in my life.” 
 
“Ah! You mean the stars?” 
 
“Yes, that’s it. The stars.” 
 
“And what do you do with five-hundred millions of 
stars?” 
 
“Five-hundred-and-one million, six-hundred-twenty-
two thousand, seven-hundred-thirty-one. I am concerned 
with matters of consequence: I am accurate.” 
 
“And what do you do with these stars?” 
 
“What do I do with them?” 
 
“Yes.” 
 
“Nothing. I own them.” 
 
“You own the stars?” 
 
“Yes.” 
46 
 
“But I have already seen a king who-” 
 
“Kings do not own, they reign over. It is a very 
different matter.” 
 
“And what good does it do you to own the stars?” 
 
“It does me the good of making me rich.” 
 
“And what good does it do you to be rich?” 
 
“It makes it possible for me to buy more stars, if any 
are discovered.” 
 
“This man,” the little prince said to himself, “reasons 
like my poor tippler…” 
 
Nevertheless, he still had some more questions. 
 
“How is it possible for one to own the stars?” 
 
“To whom do they belong?” the businessman retorted, 
peevishly. 
 
“I don’t know. To nobody.” 
 
“Then they belong to me, because I was the first 
person to think of it.” 
 
“Is that all that is necessary?” 
 
“Certainly. When you find a diamond that belongs to 
nobody, it is yours. When you discover an island that belongs 
to nobody, it is yours. When you get an idea before any one 
else, you take out a patent on it: it is yours. So with me: I own 
the stars, because nobody else before me ever thought of 
owning them.” 
 
“Yes, that is true,” said the little prince. “And what do 
you do with them?” 
 
“I administer them,” replied the businessman. “I count 
them and recount them. It is difficult. But I am a man who is 
naturally interested in matters of consequence.” 
 
The little prince was still not satisfied. 
 
“If I owned a silk scarf,” he said, “I could put it around 
my neck and take it away with me. If I owned a flower, I could 
pluck that flower and take it away with me. But you cannot 
pluck the stars from heaven…” 
47 
 
“No. But I can put them in the bank.” 
 
“Whatever does that mean?” 
 
“That means that I write the number of my stars on a 
little paper. And then I put this paper in a drawer and lock it 
with a key.” 
 
“And that is all?” 
 
“That is enough,” said the businessman. 
 
“It is entertaining,” thought the little prince. “It is 
rather poetic. But it is of no great consequence.” 
 
On matters of consequence, the little prince had ideas 
which were very different from those of the grown-ups. 
 
“I myself own a flower,” he continued his conversation 
with the businessman, “which I water every day. I own three 
volcanoes, which I clean out every week (for I also clean out 
the one that is extinct; one never knows). It is of some use to 
my volcanoes, and it is of some use to my flower, that I own 
them. But you are of no use to the stars…” 
 
The businessman opened his mouth, but he found 
nothing to say in answer. And the little prince went away. 
 
“The 
grown-ups 
are 
certainly 
altogether 
extraordinary,” he said simply, talking to himself as he 
continued on his journey. 
 
 
48 
49 
 
 
 
he fifth planet was very strange. It was the smallest of all. 
There was just enough room on it for a street lamp and a 
lamplighter. The little prince was not able to reach any 
explanation of the use of a street lamp and a lamplighter, 
somewhere in the heavens, on a planet which was so small 
that it had no people, and not one house. But he said to 
himself, nevertheless: 
 
“It may well be that this man is absurd. But he is not 
so absurd as the king, the conceited man, the businessman, 
and the tippler. For at least his work has some meaning. 
When he lights his street lamp, it is as if he brought one 
more star to life, or one flower. When he puts out his lamp, 
he sends the flower, or the star, to sleep. That is a beautiful 
occupation. And since it is beautiful, it is truly useful.” 
 
When he arrived on the planet he respectfully saluted 
the lamplighter. 
 
“Good morning, sir. Why have you just put out your 
lamp?” 
 
“Those are the orders,” replied the lamplighter. “Good 
morning.” 
 
“What are the orders?” 
 
“The orders are that I put out my lamp. Good 
evening.” 
 
And he lighted his lamp again. 
 
“But why have you just lighted it again?” 
 
“Those are the others,” replied the lamplighter. 
 
“I do not understand,” said the little prince. 
 
“There is nothing to understand,” said the lamplighter. 
“Orders are orders. Good morning.” 
 
And he put out his lamp. 
T
14 
50 
 
Then he mopped his forehead with a handkerchief 
decorated with red squares. 
 
“I follow a terrible profession. In the old days it was 
reasonable. I put the lamp out in the morning, and in the 
evening I lighted it again. I had the rest of the day for 
relaxation and the rest of the night for sleep.” 
 
“And the orders have been changed since that time?” 
 
“The orders have not been changed,” said the 
lamplighter. “That is the tragedy! From year to year the 
planet has turned more rapidly and the orders have not been 
changed!” 
 
“Then what?” asked the little prince. 
 
“Then –the planet now makes a complete turn every 
minute, and I no longer have a single second for repose. 
Once every minute I have to light my lamp and put it out!” 
 
“That is very funny! A day lasts only one minute, here 
where you live!” 
 
“It is not funny at all!” said the lamplighter. “While we 
have been talking together a month has gone by.” 
 
“A month?” 
 
“Yes, a month. Thirty minutes. Thirty days. Good 
evening.” 
 
And he lighted his lamp again. 
 
As the little prince watched him, he felt that he loved 
this lamplighter who was so faithful to his orders. He 
remembered the sunsets which he himself had gone to seek, 
in other days, merely by pulling up his chair; and he wanted 
to help his friend. 
 
“You know,” he said, “I can tell you a way you can rest 
whenever you want to…” 
 
“I always want to rest,” said the lamplighter. 
 
For it is possible for a man to be faithful and lazy at 
the same time. 
 
The little prince went on with his explanation: 
51 
 
“Your planet is so small that three strides will take you 
all the way around it. To be always in the sunshine, you need 
only walk along rather slowly. When you want to rest, you will 
walk –and the day will last as long as you like.” 
 
“That doesn’t do me much good,” said the lamplighter. 
“The one thing I love in life is to sleep.” 
 
“Then you’re unlucky,” said the little prince. 
 
“I am unlucky,” said the lamplighter. “Good morning.” 
And he put out his lamp. 
 
“That man,” said the little prince to himself, as he 
continued farther on his journey, “that man would be scorned 
by all the others: by the king, by the conceited man, by the 
tippler, by the businessman. Nevertheless he is the only one 
of them all who does not seem to me ridiculous. Perhaps that 
is because he is thinking of something else besides himself.” 
 
He breathed a sigh of regret, and said to himself 
again: 
 
“Than man is the only one of them all whom I could 
have made my friend. But his planet is indeed too small. 
There is no room on it for two people…” 
 
What the little prince did not dare confess was that he 
was sorry most of all to leave this planet, because it was blest 
every day with one thousand four hundred and forty sunsets 
in twenty-four hours! 
 
52 
 
 
 
he sixth planet was ten times larger than the last one. It 
was inhabited by an old gentleman who wrote voluminous 
books. 
 
“Oh, look! Here is an explorer!” he exclaimed to 
himself when he saw the little prince coming. 
 
The little prince sat down on the table and panted a 
little. He had already travelled so much and so far! 
 
“”Where do you come from?” the old gentleman said 
to him. 
 
“What is that big book?” said the little prince. “What 
are you doing?” 
 
“I am a geographer,” said the old gentleman. 
 
“What is a geographer?” asked the little prince. 
 
“A geographer is a scholar who knows the location of 
all the seas, rivers, towns, mountains, and deserts.” 
 
“That is very interesting,” said the little prince. “Here 
at last is a man who has a real profession!” And he cast a look 
around him at the planet of geographer. It was the most 
magnificent and stately planet that he had ever seen.  
 
“Your planet is very beautiful,” he said. “Has it any 
oceans?” 
 
“I couldn’t tell you,” said the geographer. 
 
“Ah!” The little prince was disappointed. “Has it any 
mountains?” 
 
“I couldn’t tell you,” said the geographer. 
 
“And towns, and rivers, and deserts?” 
 
“I couldn’t tell you that, either.” 
 
“But you are a geographer!” 
 
“Exactly,” the geographer said 
. “But I am not an explorer. I haven’t  
a single explorer on my planet.  
T
15 
53 
It is not the geographer who goes out to count the towns, the 
rivers, the mountains, the seas, the oceans, and the deserts. 
The geographer is much too important to go loafing about. 
He does not leave his desk. But he receives the explorers in 
his study. He asks them questions, and he notes down what 
they recall of their travels. And if the recollections of any one 
among them seem interesting to him, the geographer orders 
an inquiry into that explorer’s moral character.” 
 
“Why is that?” 
 
“Because an explorer who told lies would bring 
disaster on the books of the geographer. So would an 
explorer who drank too much.” 
 
“Why is that?” asked the little prince. 
 
“Because intoxicated people see double. Then the 
geographer would note down two mountains in a place 
where there was only one.” 
 
“I know some one,” said the little prince, “who would 
make a bad explorer.” 
 
“That is possible. Then, when the moral character of 
the explorer is shown to be good, an inquiry is ordered into 
his discovery.” 
 
“One goes to see it?” 
 
“No that would be too complicated. But one requires 
the explorer to furnish proofs. For example, if the discovery 
in question is that of a large mountain, one requires that 
large stones be brought back from it.” 
 
The geographer was suddenly stirred to excitement. 
 
“But you-you come from far away! You are an 
explorer! You shall describe your planet to me!” 
 
And, having opened his big register, the geographer 
sharpened his pencil. The recitals of explorers are put down 
first in pencil. One waits until the explorer has furnished 
proofs, before putting them down in ink. 
 
“Well?” said the geographer expectantly. 
 
“Oh, where I live,” said the little prince, “it is not very 
interesting. It is all so small. I have three volcanoes. Two 
volcanoes are active and the other is extinct. But one never 
knows.” 
54 
 
“One never knows,” said the geographer. 
 
“I have also a flower.” 
 
“We do not record flowers,” said the geographer. 
 
“Why is that? The flower is the most beautiful thing on 
my planet!” 
 
“We do not record them,” said the geographer, 
“because they are ephemeral.” 
 
“What does that mean –‘ephemeral’?” 
 
“Geographies,” said the geographer, “are the books 
which, of all books, are most concerned with matters of 
consequence. They never become old-fashioned. It is very 
rarely that a mountain changes its position. It is very rarely 
that an ocean empties itself of its waters. We write of eternal 
things.” 
 
“But extinct volcanoes may come to life again,” the 
little 
prince 
interrupted. 
“What 
does 
that 
mean-
‘ephemeral’?” 
 
“Whether volcanoes are extinct or alive, it comes to 
the same thing for us,” said the geographer. “The thing that 
matters to us is the mountain. It does not change.” 
 
“But what does that mean-‘ephemeral’?” repeated 
the little prince, who never in his life had let go of a question, 
once he had asked it. 
 
“It 
means, 
’which 
is 
in 
danger 
of 
speedy 
disappearance’.” 
 
“Is 
my 
flower 
in 
danger 
of 
disappearance?”
 
“Certainly it is.” 
 
“My flower is ephemeral,” the little prince said to 
himself, “and she has only four thorns to defend herself 
against the world. And I have left her on my planet, all alone!” 
 
That was his first moment of regret. But he took 
courage once more. 
 
“What place would you advise me to visit know?” he 
asked. 
 
“The planet Earth,” replied the geographer. “It has a 
good reputation. 
 
And the little prince went away, thinking of his flower.  
55 
 
 
 
 
o then the seventh planet was Earth.  
      The Earth is not just an ordinary planet! One can 
count, there, one hundred and eleven kings (including, of 
course, the African kings), seven thousand geographers, nine 
hundred thousand businessmen, seven-and-a-half million 
drunkards, three-hundred-eleven million vain men; in other 
words, about two billion grown-ups. 
 
To give you an idea of the size of the Earth, I will tell 
you that before the invention of electricity it was necessary 
to maintain, over the whole of the six continents, a veritable 
army of four-hundred-sixty-two thousand, five hundred and 
eleven lamplighters for the street lamps. 
 
Seen from some distance, that would make a splendid 
effect. The movements of this army would be regulated like 
those of the ballet in the opera. First would come the turn of 
the lamplighters of New Zealand and Australia. Having set 
their lamps alight, these would go off to sleep. Next, the 
lamplighters of China and Siberia would enter for their steps 
in the dance, and then they too would be waved back into the 
wings. After that would come the turn of the lamplighters of 
Russia and the Indies; then those of Africa and Europe; then 
those of South America; then those of North America. And 
never would they make a mistake in the order of their entry 
upon the stage. It would be magnificent. 
 
Only the man who was in charge of the single lamp at 
the North Pole, and his colleague who was responsible for 
the single lamp at the South Pole-only these two would live 
free from toil and care: they would be busy twice a year. 
 
 
S
16 
56 
 
 
 
hen one wishes to play the wit, he sometimes wanders a 
little from the truth. I have not been altogether honest 
in what I have told you about the lamplighters. And I realize 
that I run the risk of giving a false idea of our planet to those 
who do not know it. Men occupy a very small space upon the 
Earth. If the two billion inhabitants who people its surface 
were all to stand upright and somewhat crowded together, 
as they do for some big public assembly, they could easily be 
put into one public square twenty miles long and twenty 
miles wide. All humanity could be pilled up on a small Pacific 
islet.  
 
The grown-ups, to be sure, will not believe you when 
you tell them that. They imagine that they fill a great deal of 
space. They fancy themselves as important as the baobabs. 
You should advise them, then, to make their own calculations. 
They adore figures, and that will please them. But do not 
waste your time on this extra task. It is unnecessary. You 
have, I know, confidence in me. 
 
When the little prince arrived on the Earth, he was 
very much surprised not to see any people. He was beginning 
to be afraid he had come to the wrong planet, when a coil of 
gold, the colour of the moonlight, flashed across the sand. 
 
“Good evening,” said the little prince courteously. 
 
“Good evening,” said the snake. 
 
“What planet is this on which I have come  
down?” asked the little prince. 
 
“This is the Earth; this is Africa,” the  
snake answered. 
 
“Ah! Then there are no  
people on the Earth?”  
W
17 
57 
 
“This is the desert. There are no people in the desert. 
The Earth is large,” said the snake. 
 
The little prince sat down on a stone, and raised his 
eyes toward the sky. 
 
“I wonder,” he said, “whether the stars are set alight in 
heaven so that one day each one of us may find his own 
again… Look at my planet. It is right there above us. But how 
far away it is!” 
 
“It is beautiful,” the snake said. “What has brought you 
here?” 
 
“I have been having some trouble with a flower,” said 
the little prince. 
 
“Ah!” said the snake. 
 
And they were both silent. 
 
“Where are the people?” the little prince at last took 
up the conversation again. “It is a little lonely in the desert…” 
 
“It is also lonely among people,” the snake said. 
 
The little prince gazed at him for a long time. 
 
“You are a funny animal,” he said at last. “You are no 
thicker than a finger…” 
 
“But I am more powerful  
than the finger of a king,” said  
the snake. 
 
The little prince smiled. 
 
“You are not very  
powerful. You haven’t even  
any feet. You cannot even  
travel…” 
 
“I can carry you farther  
than any ship could take you,”  
said the snake. 
 
He twined himself  
around the little prince’s ankle,  
like a golden bracelet. 
58 
 
“Whomever I touch, I send back to the earth from 
whence they came,” the snake spoke again. “But you are 
innocent and true, and you come from a star…” 
 
The little prince made no reply. 
 
“You move me to pity-you are so weak on this Earth 
made of granite,” the snake said. “I can help you, some day, if 
you grow too homesick for your own planet. I can-” 
 
“Oh! I understand you very well,” said the little prince. 
“But why do you always speak in riddles?” 
 
“I solve them all,” said the snake. 
 
And they were both silent. 
 
59 
 
 
 
 
he little prince crossed the desert and met with only one 
flower. It was a flower with three petals, a flower of no 
account at all. 
 
“Good morning,” said the little prince. 
 
“Good morning,” said the flower. 
 
“Where are the people?” the little prince asked, 
politely. 
 
The flower had once seen a caravan passing. 
 
“People?” she echoed. “I think there are six or seven of 
them in existence. I saw them, several years ago. But one 
never knows where to find them. The wind blows them away. 
They have no roots, and that makes their life very difficult.” 
 
“Goodbye,” said the little prince. 
 
“Goodbye,” said the flower. 
 
 
T
18 
60 
 
 
 
fter that, the little prince climbed a high mountain. The 
only mountains he had ever known were the three 
volcanoes, which came up to his knees. And he used the 
extinct volcano as a foot-stool. “From a mountain as high as 
this one,” he said to himself, “I shall be able to see the whole 
planet at one glance, and all the people…” 
 
But he saw nothing, save peaks of rock that were 
sharpened like needles. 
 
“Good morning,” he said courteously. 
 
“Good 
morning-Good 
morning-Good 
morning,” 
answered the echo. 
 
“Who are you?” said the little prince. 
 
“Who are you-Who are you-Who are you?” answered 
the echo. 
 
“Be my friends. I am all alone,” he said. 
 
“I am all alone-all alone-all alone,” answered the echo. 
 
“What a queer planet!” he thought. “It is altogether 
dry, and altogether pointed, and altogether harsh and 
forbidding. And the people have no imagination. They repeat 
whatever one says to them… On my planet I had a flower; she 
always was the first to speak…” 
 
 
A
19 
61 
62 
 
 
 
ut it happened that after walking for a long time through 
sand, and rocks, and snow, the little prince at last came 
upon a road. And all roads lead to the abodes of people. 
 
“Good morning,” he said. 
 
He was standing before a garden, all a-bloom with 
roses. 
 
“Good morning,” said the roses. 
 
The little prince gazed at them. They all looked like his 
flower. 
 
“Who are you?” he demanded, thunderstruck. 
 
“We are roses,” the roses said. 
 
And he was overcome with sadness. His flower had 
told him that she was the only one of her kind in all the 
universe. And here were five thousand of them, all alike, in 
one single garden! 
 
“She would be very much annoyed,” he said to himself, 
“if she could see that… She would cough most dreadfully, and 
she would pretend that she was dying, to avoid being laughed 
at. And I should be obliged to pretend that I was nursing her 
back to life-for if I did not do that, to humble myself also, she 
would really allow herself to die…” 
 
Then he went on with his reflections: “I thought that I 
was rich, with a flower that was unique in all the world; and 
all I had was a common rose. A common rose, and three 
volcanoes that come up to my knees-and one of them 
perhaps extinct forever… That doesn’t make me a very great 
prince…” 
 
And he lay down in the grass and cried. 
B
20 
63 
 
 
 
t was then that the fox appeared. 
         “Good morning,” said the fox. 
 
“Good morning,” the little prince responded politely, 
although when he turned around he saw nothing. 
 
“I am right here,” the voice said, “under the apple 
tree.” 
 
“Who are you?” asked the little prince, and added, 
“You are very pretty to look at.” 
 
“I am a fox,” the fox said. 
 
“Come and play with me,” proposed the little prince. “I 
am so unhappy.” 
 
“I can’t play with you,” the fox said. “I am not tamed.” 
 
“Ah! Please excuse me,” said the little prince. 
 
But, after some thought, he added: 
 
“What does that mean-‘tame’?” 
 
“You do not live here,” said the fox. “What is it that you 
are looking for?” 
 
“I am looking for people,” said the little prince. “What 
does that mean-‘tame’?” 
 
“People,” said the fox. “They have guns, and they hunt. 
It is very disturbing. They also raise chickens. These are their 
only interests. Are you looking for chickens?” 
 
 
 
I 
21 
64 
 
“No,” said the little prince. “I am looking for friends. 
What does that mean-‘tame’?” 
 
“It is an act too often neglected,” said the fox. “It 
means to establish ties.” 
 
“’To establish ties’?” 
 
“Just that,” said the fox. “To me, you are still nothing 
more than a little boy who is just like a hundred thousand 
other little boys. And I have no need of you. And you, on your 
part, have no need of me. To you, I am nothing more than a 
fox like a hundred thousand other foxes. But if you tame me, 
then we shall need each other. To me, you will be unique in 
all the world. To you, I shall be unique in all the world…“ 
 
“I am beginning to understand,” said the little prince. 
“There is a flower… I think that she has tamed me…” 
 
“It is possible,” said the fox. “On the Earth one sees all 
sorts of things.” 
 
“Oh, but this is not on the Earth!” said the little prince. 
The fox seemed perplexed, and very curious. 
 
“On another planet?” 
 
“Yes.” 
 
“Are there hunters on that planet?” 
 
“No.” 
 
“Ah, that is interesting! Are there chickens?” 
 
“No.” 
 
“Nothing is perfect,” sighed the fox. 
 
But the fox came back to her idea. 
 
“My life is very monotonous,” she said. “I hunt 
chickens; people hunt me. All the chickens are just alike, and 
all people are just alike. And, in consequence, I am a little 
bored. But if you tame me, it will be as if the sun came to 
shine on my life. I shall know the sound of a step that will be 
different from all the others. Other steps send me hurrying 
back underneath the ground. Yours will call me, like music, 
out of my burrow. And then look: you see the grain-fields 
65 
down yonder? I do not eat bread. Wheat is of no use to me. 
And that is sad. But you have hair that is the colour of gold. 
Think how wonderful that will be when you have tamed me! 
The grain, which is also golden, will bring me back the 
thought of you. And I shall love to listen to the wind in the 
wheat…” 
 
The fox gazed at the little prince, for a long time. 
 
“Please-tame me!” she said. 
 
“I want to, very much,” the little prince replied. “But I 
have not much time. I have friends to discover, and a great 
many things to understand.” 
 
“One only understands the things that one tames,” 
said the fox. “People have no more time to understand 
anything. They buy things all ready made at the shops. But 
there is no shop anywhere where one can buy friendship, and 
so people have no friends any more. If you want a friend, 
tame me…” 
 
“What must I do, to tame you?” asked the little prince. 
“You must be very patient,” replied the fox. “First you will sit 
down at a little distance from me -like that- in the grass. I 
shall look at you out of the corner of my eye, and you will say 
nothing. Words are the source of misunderstandings. But you 
will sit a little closer to me, every day…” 
 
The next day the little prince came back. 
 
“It would have been better to come back at the same 
hour,” said the fox. “If, for example, you came at four o’clock 
in the afternoon, then at three o’clock I shall begin to be 
happy. I shall feel happier and happier as the hour advances. 
At four o’clock, I shall already be worrying and jumping about. 
I shall show you how happy I am! But if you come at just any 
time, I shall never know at what hour my heart is to be ready 
to greet you… One must observe the proper rites…” 
 
“What is a ‘rite’?” asked the little prince. 
66 
 
“Those also are actions too often neglected,” said the 
fox. “They are what make one day different from other days, 
one hour from other hours. There is a rite, for example, 
among my hunters. Every Thursday they dance with the 
village girls. So Thursday is a wonderful day for me! I can take 
a walk as far as the vineyards. But if the hunters danced at 
just any time, every day would be like every other day, and I 
should never have any vacation at all.” 
 
So the little prince tamed the fox. And when the hour 
of his departure drew near- 
 
“Ah,” said the fox, “I shall cry.” 
 
“It is your own fault,” said the little prince. “I never 
wished you any sort of harm; but you wanted me to tame 
you…” 
 
“Yes, that is so,” said the fox. 
 
“But now you going to cry!” said the little prince. 
 
“Yes, that is so,” said the fox. 
 
“Then it has done you no good at all!” 
 
“It has done me good,” said the fox, “because of the 
colour of the wheat fields.” And then she added: 
 
“Go and look again at the roses. You will understand 
now that yours is unique in all the world. Then come back to 
say goodbye to me, and I will make you a present of a 
secret.” 
 
The little prince went away, to look again  
at the roses. 
 
“You are not at all like my rose,” he said. “As yet  
you are nothing. No one has tamed you, and you have  
tamed no one. You are like my fox when I first knew her.  
She was only a fox like a hundred other  
foxes. But I have made her my friend,  
and now she is unique in all  
the world.” 
 
And the roses were  
67 
very much embarrassed. 
 
“You are beautiful, but you are empty,” he went on. 
“One could not die for you. To be sure, an ordinary passerby 
would think that my rose looked just like you-the rose that 
belongs to me. But in herself alone she is more important 
than all the hundreds of you other roses: because it is she 
that I have watered; because it is she that I have put under 
the glass globe; because it is she that I have sheltered behind 
the screen; because it is for her that I have killed the 
caterpillars (except the two or three that we saved to 
become butterflies); because it is she that I have listened to, 
when she grumbled, or boasted, or even sometimes when 
she said nothing. Because he is my rose.” 
 
And he went back to meet the fox. 
 
“Goodbye,” he said. 
 
“Goodbye,” said the fox. “And now here is my secret, a 
very simple secret: It is only with the heart that one can see 
rightly; what is essential is invisible to the eye.” 
 
“What is essential is invisible to the eye,” the little 
prince repeated, so that he would be sure to remember. 
 
“It is the time you have wasted for your rose that 
makes your rose so important.” 
 
“It is the time I have wasted for my rose-” said the 
little prince, so that he would be sure to remember. 
 
“People have forgotten this truth,” said the fox. “But 
you must not forget it. You become responsible, forever, for 
what you have tamed. You are responsible for your rose…” 
 
“I am responsible for my rose,” the little prince 
repeated, so that he would be sure to remember. 
 
68 
 
 
 
 
“Good morning,” said the little prince. 
 
“Good morning,” said the railway switchman. 
 
“What do you do here?” the little prince asked. 
 
“I sort out travellers, in bundles of a thousand,” said 
the switchman. “I send off the trains that carry them: now to 
the right, now to the left.” 
 
And a brilliantly lighted express train shook the 
switchman’s cabin as it rushed by with a roar like thunder. 
 
“They are in a great hurry,” said the little prince. “What 
are they looking for?” 
 
“Not even the locomotive engineer knows that,” said 
the switchman.  
 
And a second brilliantly lighted express thundered by, 
in the opposite direction. 
 
“Are they coming back already?” demanded the little 
prince. 
 
“These are not the same ones,” said the switchman. “It 
is an exchange.” 
 
“Were they not satisfied where they were?” asked the 
little prince. 
 
“No one is ever satisfied where he is,” said the 
switchman.  
 
And they heard the roaring thunder of a third 
brilliantly lighted express. 
 
“Are they pursuing the first travelers?” demanded the 
little prince. 
 
“They are pursuing nothing at all,” said the switchman. 
“They are asleep in there, or if they are not asleep they are 
yawning. Only the children are flattening their noses against 
the window-panes.”  
 
“Only the children know what they are looking for,” 
said the little prince. “They waste their time over a rag doll 
and it becomes very important to them; and if anybody takes 
it away from them, they cry…” 
 
“They are lucky,” the switchman said. 
22 
69 
 
 
 
 
“Good morning,” said the little prince. 
 
“Good morning,” said the merchant. 
 
This was the merchant who sold pills that had been 
invented to quench thirst. You need only swallow one pill a 
week, and you would feel no need of anything to drink. 
 
“Why are you selling those?” asked the little prince. 
 
“Because they save a tremendous amount of time,” 
said the merchant. “Computations have been made by 
experts. With these pills, you save fifty-three minutes in every 
week.” 
 
“And what do I do with those fifty-three minutes?” 
 
“Anything you like…” 
 
“As for me,” said the little prince to himself, “if I had 
fifty-three minutes to spend as I liked, I should walk at my 
leisure toward a spring of fresh water.” 
 
 
23 
70 
 
 
 
 
t was now the eighth day since I had had my accident in the 
desert, and I had listened to the story of the merchant as I 
was drinking the last drop of my water supply. 
 
“Ah,” I said to the little prince, “these memories of 
yours are very charming; but I have not yet succeeded in 
repairing my plane; I have nothing more to drink; and I, too, 
should be very happy if I could walk at my leisure toward a 
spring of fresh water!” 
 
“My friend the fox-” the little prince said to me. 
 
“My dear little man, this is no longer a matter that has 
anything to do with the fox!” 
 
“Why not?” 
 
“Because I am about to die of thirst…” 
 
He did not follow my reasoning, and he answered me: 
 
“It is a good thing to have a friend, even if one is about 
to die. I, for instance, am very glad to have a fox as a friend…” 
 
“He has no way of guessing the danger,” I said to 
myself. “He has never been either hungry or thirsty. A little 
sunshine is all that he needs…” 
 
But he looked at me steadily, and replied to my 
thought: 
 
“I am thirsty, too. Let us look for a well…” 
 
I made a gesture of weariness. It is absurd to look for 
a well, at random, in the immensity of the desert. But 
nevertheless we started walking. 
 
When we had trudged along for several hours, in 
silence, the darkness fell, and the stars began to come out. 
Thirst had made me a little feverish, and I looked at them as 
if I were in a dream. The little prince’s last words came 
reeling back into my memory: 
I 
24 
71 
 
“Then you are thirsty, too?” I demanded. 
 
But he did not reply to my question. He merely said to 
me: 
 
“Water may also be good for the heart…” 
 
I did not understand this answer, but I said nothing. I 
knew very well that is was impossible to cross-examine him.  
 
He was tired. He sat down. I sat down beside him. And, 
after a little silence, he spoke again: 
 
“The stars are beautiful, because a flower that cannot 
be seen.” 
 
I replied, “Yes, that is so.” And, without saying anything 
more, I looked across the ridges of sand that were stretched 
out before us in the moonlight. 
 
“The desert is beautiful,” the little prince added. 
 
And that was true. I have always loved the desert. One 
sits down on a desert sand dune, sees nothing, hears nothing. 
Yet through the silence something throbs, and gleams… 
 
“What makes the desert beautiful,” said the little 
prince, “is that somewhere it hides a well…” 
 
I was astonished by a sudden understanding of that 
mysterious radiation of the sands. When I was a little boy I 
lived in an old house, and legend told us that a treasure was 
buried there. To be sure, no one had ever known how to find 
it; perhaps no one had ever even looked for it. But it cast an 
enchantment over that house. My home was hiding a secret 
in the depths of its heart… 
 
“Yes,” I said to the little prince. “The house, the stars, 
the desert-what gives them their beauty is something that is 
invisible!” 
 
“I am glad,” he said, “that you agree with my fox.” 
 
As the little prince dropped off the sleep, I took him in 
my arms and set out walking once more. I felt deeply moved, 
and stirred. It seemed to me that I was carrying a very fragile 
treasure. It seemed to me, even, that there was nothing 
72 
more fragile on all the Earth. In the moonlight I looked at his 
pale forehead, his closed eyes, his locks of hair that trembled 
in the wind, and I said to myself: “What I see here is nothing 
but a shell. What is most important is invisible…” 
 
As his lips opened slightly with the suspicion of a half-
smile, I said to myself, again: “What moves me so deeply, 
about this little prince who is sleeping here, is his loyalty to a 
flower-the image of a rose that shines through his whole 
being like the flame of a lamp, even when he is asleep…” And 
I felt him to be more fragile still. I felt the need of protecting 
him, as if he himself were a flame that might be extinguished 
by a little puff of wind… 
 
And, as I walked on so, I found the well, at daybreak. 
 
 
73 
 
 
 
 
“People,” said the little prince, “set out on their way in 
express trains, but they do not know what they are looking 
for. Then they rush about, and get excited, and turn round 
and round…” 
 
And he added: 
 
“It is not worth the trouble…” 
 
The well that we had come to was not like the wells of 
the Sahara. The wells of the Sahara are mere holes dug in 
the sand. This one was like a well in a village. But there was 
no village here, and I thought I must be dreaming… 
 
“It is strange,” I said to the little prince. “Everything is 
ready for use: the pulley, the bucket, the rope…” 
 
He laughed, touched the rope, and set the pulley to 
working. And the pulley moaned, like an old weathervane 
which the wind has long since forgotten. 
 
“Do you hear?” said the little prince. “We have 
wakened the well, and it is singing…” 
 
I did not want to tire himself with the rope. 
 
“Leave it to me,” I said. “It is too heavy for you.” 
 
I hoisted the bucket slowly to the edge of the well and 
set it there-happy, tired 
as 
I 
was, 
over 
my 
achievement. The song 
of the pulley was still in 
my ears, and I could see 
the sunlight shimmer in 
the still trembling water. 
 
“I am thirsty for 
this water,” said the little 
prince. “Give me some 
of it to drink…” 
25 
74 
 
And I understood what he had been looking for. 
 
I raised the bucket to his lips. He drank, his eyes 
closed. It was as sweet as some special festival treat. This 
water was indeed a different thing from ordinary 
nourishment. Its sweetness was born of the walk under the 
stars, the song of the pulley, the effort of my arms. It was 
good for the heart, like a present. When I was a little boy, the 
lights of the Christmas tree, the music of the Midnight Mass, 
the tenderness of smiling faces, used to make up, so, the 
radiance of the gifts I received. 
 
“The people where you live,” said the little prince, 
“raise five thousand roses in the same garden-and they do 
not find in it what they are looking for.” 
 
“They do not find it,” I replied. 
 
“And yet what they are looking for could be found in 
one single rose, or in a little water.” 
 
“Yes, that is true,” I said. 
 
And the little prince added: 
 
“But the eyes are blind. One must look with the 
heart…” 
 
I had drunk the water. I breathed easily. At sunrise the 
sand is the colour of honey. And that honey colour was 
making me happy, too. What brought me, then, this sense of 
grief? 
 
“You must keep your promise,” said the little prince, 
softly, as he sat down beside me once more. 
 
“What promise?” 
 
“You know-a muzzle for my sheep… I am responsible 
for this flower…” 
 
I took my rough drafts of drawings out of my pocket. 
The little prince looked them over, and laughed as he said: 
 
“Your baobabs-they look a little like cabbages.” 
 
“Oh!” 
 
I had been so proud of my baobabs! 
75 
 
“Your fox-her ears look a little like horns; and they are 
too long.” 
 
And he laughed again. 
 
“You are not fair, little prince,” I said. “I don’t know how 
to draw anything except boa constrictors from the outside 
and boa constrictors from the inside.” 
 
“Oh, that will be all right,” he said, “children 
understand.” 
 
So then I made a pencil sketch of a muzzle. And as I 
gave it to him my heart was torn. 
 
“You have plans that I do not know about,” I said. 
 
But he did not answer me. He said to me, instead: 
 
“You know-my descent on the earth… Tomorrow will 
be its anniversary.” 
 
Then, after a silence, he went on: 
 
“I came down very near here.” 
 
And he flushed. 
 
And once again, without understanding why, I had a 
queer sense of sorrow. One question, however, occurred to 
me: 
 
“Then it was not by chance that on the morning when 
I first met you -a week ago- you were strolling along like that, 
all alone, a thousand miles from any inhabited region? You 
were on your way back to the place where you landed?” 
 
The little prince flushed again. 
 
And I added, with some hesitancy: 
 
“Perhaps, it was because of the anniversary?” 
 
The little prince flushed once more. He never 
answered questions-but when ones flushes does that not 
mean “Yes”?  
 
“Ah,” I said to him, “I am a little frightened-” 
 
But he interrupted me. 
 
“Now you must work. You must return to your engine. 
I will be waiting for you here. Come back tomorrow evening…” 
 
But I was not reassured. I remembered the fox. One 
runs the risk of weeping a little, if one lets himself be tamed… 
 
76 
 
 
 
 
eside the well there was the ruin of an old stone wall. 
When I came back from my work, the next evening, I saw 
from some distance away my little prince sitting on top of 
this wall, with his feet dangling. And I heard him say:  
 
“Then you don’t remember. This is not the exact spot.” 
 
Another voice must have answered him, for he replied 
to it: 
 
“Yes, yes! It is the right day, but this is not the place.” 
 
I continued my walk toward the wall. At no time did I 
see or hear anyone. The little prince, however, replied once 
again: 
 
“-Exactly. You will see where my track begins, in the 
sand. You have nothing to do but wait for me there. I shall be 
there tonight.” 
 
I was only twenty yards from the wall, and I still saw 
nothing. 
 
After a silence the little prince spoke again: 
 
“You have good poison? You are sure that it will not 
make me suffer too long?” 
 
I stopped in my tracks, my 
heart torn asunder; but still I did 
not understand. 
 
“Now go away,” said the 
little prince. “I want to get down 
from the wall.” 
 
I dropped my eyes, then, 
to the foot of the wall-and I 
leaped into the air. There before 
me, facing the little prince, was 
one of those yellow snakes that 
B
26 
77 
take thirty seconds to bring your life to an end. Even as I was 
digging into my pocket to get out my revolver I made a 
running step back. But, at the noise I made, the snake let 
himself flow easily across the sand like the dying spray of a 
fountain, and, in no apparent hurry, disappeared, with a light 
metallic sound, among the stones. 
 
I reached the wall just in time to catch my little man in 
my arms; his face was white as snow. 
 
“What does this mean?” I demanded. “Why are you 
talking with snakes?” 
 
I had loosened the golden muffler that he always 
wore. I had moistened his temples, and had given him some 
water to drink. And now I did not dare ask him any more 
questions. He looked at me very gravely, and put his arms 
around my neck. I felt his heart beating like the heart of a 
dying bird, shot with someone’s rifle… 
 
“I am glad that you have found what was the matter 
with your engine,” he said. “Now you can go back home-” 
 
“How do you know about that?” 
 
I was just coming to tell him that my work had been 
successful, beyond anything that I had dared to hope.  
 
He made no answer to my question, but he added: 
 
“I, too, am going back home today…” 
 
Then, sadly- 
 
“It is much farther… It is much more difficult…” 
 
I realized clearly that something extraordinary was 
happening. I was holding him close in my arms as if he were a 
little child; and yet it seemed to me that he was rushing 
headlong toward an abyss from which I could do nothing to 
restrain him… 
 
His look was very serious, like some one lost far away. 
 
“I have your sheep. And I have the sheep’s box. And I 
have the muzzle…” 
And he gave me a sad smile. 
78 
 
I waited for a long time. I could see that he was 
reviving little by little. 
 
“Dear little man,” I said to him, “You are afraid…” 
 
He was afraid, there was no doubt about that. But he 
laughed lightly.  
 
“I shall be much more afraid this evening…” 
 
Once again I felt myself frozen by the sense of 
something irreparable. And I knew that I could not bear the 
thought of never hearing that laughter any more. For me, it 
was like a spring of fresh water in the desert. 
 
“Little man,” I said, “I want to hear you laugh again.” 
 
But he said to me: 
 
“Tonight, it will be a year… My star, then, can be found 
right above the place where I came to the Earth, a year 
ago…” 
 
“Little man,” I said, “tell me that it is only a bad dream-
this affair of the snake, and the meeting-place, and the star…” 
 
But he did not answer my plea. He said to me, instead: 
 
“The thing that is important is the thing that is not 
seen…” 
 
“Yes, I know…” 
 
“It is just as it is with the flower. If you love a flower 
that lives on a star, it is 
sweet to look at the sky 
at night. All the stars 
are 
a-bloom 
with 
flowers…” 
“Yes, I know…” 
“It is just as it is 
with the water. Because 
of the pulley, and the 
rope, what you gave me 
to drink was like music. 
79 
You remember-how good it was.” 
“Yes, I know…” 
“And at night you will look up at the stars. Where I live 
everything is so small that I cannot show you where my star 
is to be found. It is better, like that. My star will be just one of 
the stars, for you. And so you will love to watch all the stars in 
the heavens… They will all be your friends. And, besides, I am 
going to make you a present…” 
He laughed again. 
“Ah, little prince, dear little prince! I love to hear that 
laughter!” 
“That is my present. Just that. It will be as it was when 
we drank the water…” 
“What are you trying to say?” 
“All people have stars,” he answered, “but they are not 
the same things for different people. For some, who are 
travellers, the stars are guides. For others they are no more 
than little lights in the sky. For others, who are scholars, they 
are problems. For my businessman they are wealth. But all 
these stars are silent. You -you alone- will have the stars as 
no one else has them-” 
“What are you trying to say?” 
“In one of the stars I shall be living. In one of them I 
shall be laughing. And so it will be as if all the stars were 
laughing, when you look at the sky at night… You -only you- 
will have stars than can laugh!” 
And he laughed again. 
“And when your sorrow is comforted (time soothes all 
sorrows) you will be content that you have known me. You 
will always be my friend. You will want to laugh with me. And 
you will sometimes open your window, so, for that pleasure… 
And your friends will be properly astonished to see you 
laughing as you look up at the sky! Then you will say to them, 
‘Yes, the stars always make me laugh!’ And they will think you 
80 
are crazy. It will be a very shabby trick that I shall have played 
on you… ” 
And he laughed again. 
“It will be as if, in place of the stars, I had given you a 
great number of little bells that knew how to laugh…” 
And he laughed again. Then he quickly became 
serious: 
“Tonight – you know… Do not come.” 
“I shall not leave you,” I said. 
“I shall look as if I were suffering. I shall look a little as 
if I were dying. It is like that. Do not come to see that. It is not 
worth the trouble…” 
“I shall not leave you.” 
 
But he was worried. 
 
“I tell you-it is also because of the snake. He must not 
bite you. Snakes-they are malicious creatures. This one might 
bite you just for fun…” 
 
“I shall not leave you.” 
 
But a thought came to reassure him: 
 
“It is true that they have no more poison for a second 
bite.” 
 
That might I did not see him set out on his way. He got 
away from me without making a sound. When I succeeded in 
catching up with him he was walking along with a quick and 
resolute step. He said to me merely: 
 
“Ah! You are there...” 
 
And he took me by the hand. But he was still worrying.  
 
“It was wrong of you to come. You will suffer. I shall 
look as if I were dead; and that will not be true…” 
 
I said nothing. 
 
“You understand… It is too far. I cannot carry this body 
with me. It is too heavy.” 
 
I said nothing. 
81 
 
“But it will be like an old abandoned shell. There is 
nothing sad about old shells…” 
 
I said nothing. 
 
He was a little discouraged. But he made one more 
effort: 
 
“You know, it will be very nice. I, too, shall look at the 
stars. All the stars will be wells with a rusty pulley. All the 
stars will pour out fresh water for me to drink…” 
 
I said nothing. 
 
“That will be so amusing! You will have five hundred 
million little bells, and I shall have five hundred million springs 
of fresh water…” 
 
And he too said nothing more, because he was 
crying… 
 
“Here it is. Let me go on by myself.” 
And he sat down, because he was afraid. Then he said, 
again: 
“You know-my flower… I am responsible for her. And 
she is so weak! She is so naïve! She has four thorns, of no use 
at all, to protect herself against the world…” 
I too sat down, because I was not able to stand up any 
longer. 
“There now-that is all…” 
He still hesitated a little; then 
he got up. He took one step. I could 
not move.  
82 
There was nothing there but a flash of yellow close to 
his ankle. He remained motionless for an instant. He did not 
cry out. He feel as gently as a tree falls. There was not even 
any sound, because of the sand. 
 
 
 
83 
 
 
 
 
nd now six years have already gone by… I have never yet 
told this story. The companions who met me on my 
return were well content to see me alive. I was sad, but I told 
them: “I am tired.” 
 
Now my sorrow is comforted a little. That is to say-not 
entirely. But I know that he did go back to his planet, because 
I did not find his body at daybreak. It was not such a heavy  
body… And at night I love to listen to the stars. It is like five 
hundred million little bells… 
 
But there is one extraordinary thing… When I drew the 
muzzle for the little prince, I forgot to add the leather strap 
to it. He will never have been able to fasten it on his sheep. 
So now I keep wondering: what is happening on his planet? 
Perhaps the sheep has eaten the flower…  
 
At one time I say to myself: “Surely not! The little 
prince shuts his flower under her glass globe every night, and 
he watches over his sheep very carefully…” Then I am happy. 
And there is sweetness in the laughter of all stars. 
 
But at another time I say to myself: “At some moment 
or other one is absent-minded, and that is enough! On some 
one evening he forgot the glass globe, or the sheep got out, 
without making any noise, in the night…” And then the little 
bells are changed to tears… 
 
Here, then, is a great mystery. For you who also love 
the little prince, and for me, nothing in the universe can be 
the same if somewhere, we do not know where, a sheep that 
we never saw -yes or no?- eaten a rose… 
Look up at the sky. Ask yourselves: Is it yes or no? Has 
the sheep eaten the flower? And you will see how everything 
changes…  
A
27 
84 
And no grown-up will understand that this is a matter 
of so much importance! 
 
This is, to me, the loveliest and saddest landscape in 
the world. It is the same as that on the page before, but I 
have drawn it again to impress it on your memory. It is here 
that the little prince appeared on Earth, and disappeared. 
Look at it carefully so that you will be sure to 
recognize it in case you travel some day to the African 
desert. And, if you should come upon this spot, please do not 
hurry on. Wait for a time, exactly under the star. Then, if a 
little man appears who laughs, who has golden hair and who 
refuses to answer questions, you will know who he is. If this 
should happen, please comfort me. Send me word that he 
has come back. 
 
 
85 
86 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The idea of Saita publications emerged in July 2012, having 
as a primary goal to create a web space where new authors 
can interact with the readers directly and free. 
 
Saita publications’ aim is to redefine the publisher-author-
reader relationship, by cultivating a true dialogue and by 
establishing an effective communication channel for authors 
and readers alike. Saita publications stay far away from 
profit, 
exploitation 
and 
commercialization 
of 
literary 
property. 
 
 
The strong wind of passion for reading, 
the sweet breeze of creativity, 
the zephyr of motivation, 
the sirocco of imagination, 
the levanter of persistence, 
the deep power of vision 
guide the saita (paper plane) of our publications. 
 
 
We invite you to let books fly free! 
 
 
88 
 
“The Little Prince” with fairy tale 
elements, takes us to a fantasy world 
where we find different types of 
people, 
symbols 
and 
ingenious 
allegories. 
The 
objectives, 
values, 
feelings and the role of each person in 
life are written with simple words and 
an 
interesting 
illustration. 
A 
masterpiece 
created 
during 
the 
difficult period of the Second World 
War, attempting to give a lesson of life 
and humanity. 
ISBN: 978-618-5147-45-7 
